# LLM Usage Policy

This doc explain how LLM should be used in this repository, and a history of how LLM used in development of CO2 until now.

## Policy

This generally follows the [Rust project LLM policy]
and if a case is not covered here, please refer to that doc.

* ✅ Any private use of LLM is allowed. Including asking questions, summarizing, consulting, private code review, ...
* ❌ Posting any English text generated by LLM is banned. Including PR description, issue comments, docs, code comments, ...
  * ⚠️ Text intended to be used with LLM (e.g. LLM prompt template) is excluded.
* ⚠️ Using LLM for code generation is conditionally allowed:
  * It should be disclosed. You should also disclose model name, tools and other major factors.
  * For non trivial code changes, communicate with me **before** doing the change.
  * Review the generated code yourself before submitting it.
    * To make it easier for everyone, break task to smaller pieces, and use separate commits.
      As a rule of thumb, an LLM generated commit should not contain more than 100 line changes.
      This is not a hard requirement, but doing so would help yourself better understanding of the LLM code,
      which is required for submitting LLM patches.

For rationale behind these rules, see the [Rust project LLM policy].

## History of how LLM used

The project's idea was started in pre LLM era, and I adopted the code from [azhdaha](https://github.com/skye-tan/azhdaha) to
form the base of this project. Azhdaha was (and even is now) completely hand written, so it started with a hand written base.

Then LLM progressed, agentic ones happened, and I eventually used some of them which had free tiers.
My usage peaked when opencode provided deepseek v4 flash free, which was a usable model in both intelligence and rate limits.
I heavily rewrote some parts of the project at this point, like the test harness and the bundler script.
Another notable LLM usage of me is updating the rustc version and fixing the breaking changes (CO2 heavily uses unstable rustc internals).

I also adopted some codes written by LLMs of others. Most notably, the preprocessor [is adopted from Claude's C compiler](../../co2_preprocessor/README.md).
These parts of code are usually at lower quality than the rest of the project, and I consider them as a technical dept.
But there were no better human code available at the time, and they were necessary to make progress.
I would appreciate a human rewrite of those parts, if it improves code quality.

[Rust project LLM policy]: https://github.com/jyn514/rust-forge/blob/llm-policy/src/policies/llm-usage.md
